So without further ado, I'd say let's dive right in
and of course feel free to pause this section right now and try this on your own first or pause from
time to time whilst we go through this mini demo here
so that you can also try out things on your own before we then do it together.
I will show you my approach,
my solution here, as always in programming
there will be more than one possible solution and therefore I would definitely recommend that you also
try this on your own first or that you temporarily or from time to time pause and try the next steps
on your own first before you then follow along with me
because that will help you find out where you need to practice more, what you already know pretty well
and so on.
So the goal is to make these buttons work
and of course that sounds very trivial.
Now the first important decision we'll have to make is whether we want to use classes, whether we want
to use an object oriented approach or not. Both works and both is OK,
you could go into your script file and just dump in a couple of constants where you kind of select all
the buttons, add event listeners, work with some global arrays here,
you probably want one array of projects for the first box and one array of projects for the second box
and then you move items between these boxes, between these two arrays
and you'll also update the DOM by moving the elements there.
You can do that and you can do it with or without classes.
Now since we worked a lot with classes in the last modules, I will use classes here to also practice this
object oriented approach and this OOP way of thinking a bit more and therefore I will not throw in
a couple of global constants,
instead I will start by defining a couple of classes which we then can work on. Now which classes would
that be though?
Now of course as I said, there are many ways of structuring this,
I will create a class, a project list class which in the end manages all the projects of one box.
I will also create a class for a single project item,
so for such a rendered item
and keep in mind we'll not have to render these items,
they're already there but we'll have to add some logic to read them from the DOM and populate some
Javascript logic with data that can be found in the DOM.
I'll also add a class that manages the app overall and I'll also add a class, a tooltip class which helps
us display a tooltip when we click on this button.
So therefore if we go back, I'll add a class, tooltip which will be helpful for this more info button, I
will add another class, project item because I got a couple of projects here and a single item there
should be managed with a project item class which then is responsible for listening on clicks on that
finish or activate button.
Of course we've got multiple projects though and we're managing them in multiple lists,
so I'll add another class here, the project list class so that we can create multiple instances of this class
for the different lists
we have and as I said, I will add an app class.
Now these might not be all classes we work with in this module but these are the classes with which
I want to start.
Now speaking of getting started, the interesting thing about this project is that
we already have some items rendered here.
This could be a page we're getting from some server, where this page was created and rendered on the
server so to say, where the HTML code was created on the server I mean and now in the frontend, in the
browser, we just want to add some Javascript so that we can't add new items or delete them but we can
move them between the boxes and this would be a common use case, a common scenario by the way, you're
not always building applications where you manage everything in the browser with Javascript,
it's quite common to also have applications where the HTML code is pregenerated on the server and you
with your Javascript in the browser, you only want to add some interactions to that content and that's
exactly what we're doing here.
Therefore our HTML code is the source of truth
we could say, the data we're interested in, things like the IDs of the projects are part of that HTML
code and therefore we need some logic, some code to parse the HTML code, parse the two different
sections we have which are these boxes which hold the projects to find out which projects with which
ID are currently active and which are finished so that thereafter we can add logic to switch these elements
and switch these projects in code.